So needing to know the exact
length of an array and
everything that's in it every time
that you instantiate one that seems
problematic, which is what brings us to
the slice, and the slice is gonna feel
a little bit more familiar to JavaScript
in terms of how we implement it.
But there are some really interesting
things happening behind the scenes.
So a slice essentially is
a segment of an underlying array.
So what's happening is go is actually
allocating some memory for us, and
then it's telling us okay, I've carved out
this much space for you behind the scenes.
I know you're only using this section, but
I still need to put it
somewhere in your computer.
And so it stores it as if it's in array,
it just doesn't tell you about that part.
So we're gonna look at
what that looks like.
And then there's a built-in function
called make that's crucial to actually
instantiating a slice so that it knows
two carve up memory in the first place.
So the make function that we'll talk about
first according to the docs that actually
says it initializes and allocates space
and memory for a slice, map, or channel.
And this is important [be]cause
it doesn't include an array and
it's because it needs to know how
much space it needs to allocate, and
since we're not specifying a length
it doesn't know what to do here.
So let's hop over to slices.go and talk a
little bit more about what makes does and
how to instantiate the slice.
Okay, so in our first example here
we have our main function and
at the top I have two different
variables that have been instantiated.
One is called myArray and a set two and
a five element array of integers.
And on line eight,
we've got a mySlice, and
the only difference between the two and
we're instantiating them is that
the second which is a slice
doesn't have that length in there.
Cool.
So if I run this code as is,
you'll notice on 10 and 11,
I'm trying to establish that the zero with
element of each of those things has
a value of one, and then line 13 and 14.
I'm just printing out
what those values are.
So if I run the code as is we are in
section four code, and then slices.
You'll see I get an error.
And the error says that there's
an index out of range zero
with length zero and
this is happening on go line 11.
And so here's where make comes in.
So my array knows that hey,
go carve out five
sections of memory to store integers in,
and so if we were to run.
My array everything would work fine.
But because we don't have a length here go
doesn't know how much space to allocate.
So in order to fix that,
we have to use the built in
method make an Intel go, okay,
you might change this later, but how much
memory do you want to allocate right away?
So to do that.
I'm just gonna modify this
first example here two on
the left hand side assign
it to an initial value.
An initial value is gonna start
with a make built in function.
We know we want it to be
an array of integers and
we want an initial length to be five.
We run our program again.
You'll see that the two
print out just fine,
that both of them have now allocated that
first element to have a value of one.
The arguments on the right hand side,
it can go up to three.
So, our first set here is that
we're instantiating a slice and
it has an integer as its set of types.
The second argument is
the initial length of that array.
And it does take
an optional third argument.
That's the maximum capacity
that that array can hold.
So if I just print the program as is.
Let's see.
You'll see that right now our slice,
that second output printed there
still has only five elements.
But similarly to how we used len to
find out the length of something.
So if I say len of my slice,
you'll see that number five.
But I can also use a built in verb,
cap for capacity, to ask my slice,
okay, you're five elements long now,
but how long can you be in the future?
You'll see that prints out 10.
>> Why is an array is not 10?
Is that-
>> On line 8?
>> Yeah, in terms of capacity,
why is it 10?
>> The initial amount,
let's say you know you're going to be
modifying the array in the near future.
I believe my understanding is that it
optimizes how much space is available for
immediate modification of the array,
we'll see a little bit later that
we can use functions like append,
which will tack on extra memory, so
let's say you have a capacity of 10 and
you have 12 elements, it will allocate
more memory when it needs to, but
I think it's just a way to be like,
hey, this is carved out ready to go for
you without having to re
establish that behind the scenes.
>> You mean my slice right?
>> I mean slice?
So all slices are arrays
behind the scenes.
>> Yeah.
>> But right now,
this particular slice is only
pointing to a subset of
a longer a behind the scenes.
I've really great slide for
this in just a moment [LAUGH].
>> So if you did the cap on
the my array with just get five.
>> Let's check it out.
[SOUND]
Cool.
So let's look at establishing arrays and
slices a little bit differently.
I'm gonna wipe out kind
of the code we have here.
And let's start with a variable
I'm gonna call a fruit array.
And I want that to be an actual array
a carved out slice of memory that has five
elements of strings.
Using the curly braces to
set some initial values.
So let's throw in a bunch of fruit here.
[SOUND]
Cool.
So we're working with a fruit
array of five strings.
If I wanted to establish a slice off
of this array, I could set it to
Something like this, where I'm saying
I'm going to grab a section of
the original array which
is called fruitArray.
And from that fruitArray, I wanna
grab just a subset of the elements.
And so this 1:3 is saying, start before
element 1 and end before element 3,
which is gonna be a length of 2.
So I can go ahead and print line here.
And now we see a subset of that
array which is just pear and apple.
What's interesting is if I asked
my spliced fruit slice for
its length and capacity,
And I print those two values here.
We get different values.
So the length is two which makes sense
we see two elements in the array, but
the capacity is four.
And so because each slice is associated
with its underlying array it has to be
allocated somewhere in memory.
It knows it's attached to this fruit or
a guy because we're telling it to
pull the slice off of that variable.
And if we start here and
count to the end of our array,
we have four available elements to work
with, even if we're only using two.
The link might be two, but our capacity of
memory for this particular array is four,
which is a super interesting aspect of go
when it's talking about slices in arrays.